What kind of features of this editor support ?
1. Undo/Redo you need track the history by a stack, you can cache all the history
state of the text, but what if the text is so big ? Therefore you need to cache
the diff about each change, however, if the user type "hello world", cache the
each world or each char ?
2. Cusor and Multi cusor. Insert into the cusor. the basic idea is we can split
the file into seveval lines, then we can use the col/row to track where the cusor
is, then when you insert a char at the cusor, this is really a insert an element
into an array. Image if we open a big file, this will be very slow, because you
will need to move the char one by one. It will be worse if you need to render the
font or you need render typesetting of the text, you may need to recalculate
everything.
3. Therefore you need a data strcuture here to speed up the insertion and deletion.
Rope will be an option here, it like binary tree, split a large string by different
pieces, so you don't need to move all the char, just move those at the same leaf.
4. Selection and Copy Paste. If you select lines of text, you will need to compute
all the leaf in our rope, and need to consider how to rebalance the tree.
5. Search. Well trie will be the option here.
6. Grammer highlight. First you will need a parser here. and the text editor should
have api that support render the font in differnt color. If we are designing something
target to the browser, we should not use textarea anymore, in this case, all the
text should be render as a html file, the cusor should be an element in that html,
we render it by caculating the position.
7. Plugins system. You will need to support a script language in your editor. and
provide some api about things like uodo/redo, get the text, change the format of
selected text etc.
8. Decoding/Encoding. You will need to select right charset based on the file automatically, otherwise you will have wrong data show on the screen.
9. Typesetting.
10. Support markup/lex

设计 Google Doc 这种多人同时编辑的，怎么让每个人看到的都是update的version
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5772879/how-do-you-write-a-real-time-webbased-collaboration-tool-such-as-google-docs
Operational transformation
Instead of editing the doc directly, send operations to server andlet server decide the final/combined state.
